
# MACS 31300 Final Project
## Kaylah Thomas and Sruti Kanthan

Fine dining treats food as a medium of artistic expression, rather than as a means to an end. This niche cuisine typically aims to use high-quality, hard-to-find -- and often very expensive -- ingredients to tell a story about food. There is no ubiquitous standard for what qualifies as gourmet, but the Michelin Guide has been considered a barometer for over a century. 
The standards by which a Michelin restaurant is awarded its stars are very meticulous and aim to define exemplars of culinary excellence. Food critics analyze several qualities of a restaurant and its head chef including ambiance, quality of the food, and personality of the dishes. The exact criteria are kept secret, but each (anonymous) critic uses their own discretion to determine what they may think meets the standards for awarding a Michelin star. Using this schema, the present research aims to analyze the qualities and trends that qualify upscale dining by a Michelin threshold. We use natural language processing approaches and supervised learning analysis to determine which features are most associated with an “upscaleness” that is reminiscent of Michelin star restaurants. Our modeling will be applied to historical restaurant data to determine how these features have changed over time.

**Hypotheses:**

We have two hypotheses for which features may most exemplify “fanciness”:
* **H1:**  Longer menu and item descriptions should be associated with more upscale restaurants, given that fine dining establishments often go to greater lengths to explain the ingredients and techniques that went into preparing each dish. More specifically: restaurants that have item descriptions with a larger amount of adjectives (i.e., words that specifically act as descriptors of the food) in them are more likely to be linked with a higher price point, one consistent arbiter of “fanciness” as defined by the Michelin threshold (Kiatkawsin & Han, 2019). A lengthy description may also provide information about where the food is coming from, and it stands to reason that these details would be disclosed by restaurants that are more confident in the quality of their ingredient sourcing and the sophistication of their methods.
* **H2:** The number of items on a restaurant’s menu will be indicative of their “fanciness” (again, operationalized as costliness). Upscale restaurants tend to have small tasting menus that are carefully curated and mastered by the chef before serving (Vásquez & Chik, 2015). Therefore, a small menu where the dishes are meticulously perfected may be indicative of a fancier establishment, and we would expect shorter menus to be associated with higher price points for restaurants.
        	In order to test our hypotheses and create models, we must clearly operationalize how we define “upscaleness”. We use a dataset of features and qualities of Michelin star restaurants in order to establish a standard by which we are certain the restaurant reflects a largely agreed-upon standard of “upscaleness”. Before analysis, our proposed features include, long item descriptions, short menus, and high prices. We analyze the given features, as well as conduct a language analysis in order to map these trends within the New York Public Library historical menu database. Once we have created a baseline definition that would indicate a restaurant as meeting Michelin standards, we are able to analyze whether other restaurants within our collected dataset are similar.
